# Creative Framework

This paper attempts to explore the unique creative framework that emerges when considering Rocketship's 'realtime reactive event relationships' as creative building blocks for designing experiences using complex multi-medium systems. A creative framework encompasses the fundamental principles, practices, tools, and methodologies used within a particular approach to creative exploration and ideation. The 'creative building blocks' of a given framework dictate, to an extent, the boundaries of creative possibility that can be conceived within that framework. 

It would seem rare to find someone who naturally conceives of a reactive event relationship constructively, by first considering the events involved, then the class of the relationship, then its rules and algorithms, its properties and attributes, and finally the ways it might relate to other relationships in a broader context. More likely, people naturally conceive of reactive event relationships intuitively, by imagining a hypothetical reality in which the relationship exists in order to explain how the effects of a certain relationship would lead to a certain experience. It feels so natural to conceive of reactive event relationships in this way because they are so fundamental to our experience of life - anything could be considered an event, and any event could react to any other event. 

Because we assemble our conception of reactive event relationships primarily through experience, and only secondarily through intellectual consideration, it is difficult to imagine relationships that lead to experiences we've never had. I hope that the theoretical and practical concepts discussed herein provide a useful starting point for retrospectively describing reactive event relationships conceived intuitively, as well as expanding the scope of possibility for constructing new kinds of relationships. My aim is to aid the prospective creative designer and Rocketship operator in navigating the process of defining, organizing, and managing reactive event relationships, as well as dealing with the complex possibility-space that grows exponentially as the number, complexity, and diversity of different subsystems increases.  

The set of reactive event relationships that we can conceive of is limited only by our imaginations. And yet, it's easy to imagine an experience where you flap your arms and a bunch of pigs pour out of the sky riding rainbows, but it would be another matter entirely to instantiate a realtime reactive event relationship between 'man-flaps-arms' and 'pigs-ride-rainbows'. The physical and technological limitations of reality do impose a hard boundary on the set of reactive event relationships which are possible to practically instantiate and control. (Happily, we can in fact make virtual pigs fly.)

The other, more 'soft' boundary stems from the artistic and/or functional context in which a relationship is conceived and implemented. For instance, a vertically-integrated installation job with little role distinction between creator, artist, and designer offers near-unlimited creative freedom for designing the system and subsystem structure and the realtime reactive event relationships therein. On the other end of the spectrum, a creator/artist might wish to only use Rocketship to implement a particular relationship they have already conceived of, thus limiting the Rocketship operator's role to simply programming a preconceived relationship, rather than exploring what relationships are possible to create within the bounds of the system.

That being said, it's no trivial matter to just simply 'explore what relationships are possible to create within the bounds of a system', not least of which because a relationship does indeed need to be programmed into Rocketship in order for it to be instantiated. Generally speaking, the process of creating reactive event relationships in Rocketship proceeds by determining:

1. The system and subsystem structure (**Executors, Instances, Clusters, Services, and Targets**).
2. The set of events each subsystem can surface to Rocketship (**Emitters and Actions**).
3. The events to be involved in a reactive relationship (**Binding**).
4. The nature of the relationship itself, which can be described intuitively and/or by its:
	1. Class
	2. Rules and Algorithms
	3. Properties

**Chapter 1** reviews the basic classes of relationships, and **Chapter 2** the types of rules and algorithms which govern the behavior of those relationships. **Chapter 3** examines through a practical lens the various properties of relationships, and touches on concepts such as determinism, chaos, time, recursion, and self-similarity. **Chapter 4** explores a number of different types of emergent complexity. **Chapter 5** observes, from a creative design perspective, the overarching patterns and principles for creating realtime reactive event relationships, and finally **Chapter 6** suggests some strategies for organizing and managing the relationships that exist between reactive event relationships.
## Terminology

1. **System/Network:** The overarching, total system, defined by the network of its subsystems/component systems.
2. **Subsystems/Components:** The individual components that together make up the whole system.
3. **Rocketship:** The centralized control platform subsystem which facilitates bi-directional communication throughout the system.
4. **Communication Infrastructure**: The medium through which different subsystems connect and interact with each other through Rocketship.
5. **Architecture**: The underlying structure that dictates how different subsystems connect and interact with each other.
	1. **Target:** Some element of a subsystem whose state changes can be observed and set.
	2. **Emitter/Pulse:** An **Emitter** observes an element and sends a **Pulse** *to* Rocketship whenever its state changes.
	3. **Action/Bundle:** An **Action** is a command sent *from* Rocketship that sets the state of an element. A **Bundle** is a group of **Actions**.
	4. **Binding:** The mechanism which instantiates a reactive event relationship.
6. **Realtime Reactive Event Relationships:** The interactions that occur within and between subsystems. A reactive event relationship is considered 'realtime' if there is no perceived latency between the two events.

**Rocketship** transforms groups of isolated **subsystems** into interactive, interconnected, dynamically reactive **networks**. It provides the **communication infrastructure** and underlying **architecture** necessary for creating and sequencing **realtime reactive event relationships** within and between different subsystems.
