# Getting Started

## Connecting to a Rocketship Server

In order to access the monitoring and control interface for setting up and orchestrating reactive event relationships between different Executors, connect to a Rocketship Server in a web browser to load the GUI. Open up your favorite browser (we recommend using Chrome) and navigate to the host address of the server you wish to connect to. 

Being able to load the control GUI of any Rocketship Server from a browser client is part of the decentralized nature of Rocketship, and automatically enables many useful features. You can open as many copies of the client in as many windows or tabs you would like, which makes window management natural and intuitive for anyone who has ever used a browser before (see also [Window Groups] and [Sessions]!). You can also open the client from any computer on the same network as the server, which makes multi-user viewing/editing inherent. Everybody working on a project, regardless of their department or role, can easily open the client to view and/or edit the same monitoring and control interface as everybody else (permissions can be set to manage view/edit access for teams and individuals).  

## Creating a project.

After authenticating, you will be greeted by the project page. 

Create a new project or select an existing project to start designing.

## Managing Sessions

**Sessions** are where high-level organization of **Machines**, **Services**, **Executors**, **Instances**, and **Clusters** takes place.
A Machine is the physical hardware running a Service, e.g. some software like TouchDesigner or Ableton Live or a lighting control system or even your microwave.
Also running on the Machine is an Executor, which is another bit of software that facilitates communication between the Service and Rocketship. 

> Note: Some Services can run Executors inside themselves, while others require a separate 'sidecar' application running in parallel.

Multiple Instances of a Service can be running at the same time, either on the same Machine or different Machines.
Instances can be treated individually or as part of a Cluster (a group of Instances). We will see how this feature becomes useful when dealing with reactive event relationships that involve lots of Instances of the same Service.

All of these organizational abstractions are couched in a particular Session, and you can have multiple sessions active at once, for example, if you are designing a live show and want different sessions for pre-viz, rehearsal, and performance.  

> ### Window Groups
> In order to better manage multiple Sessions from the same client, they can be assigned to different Window Groups (differentiated by the color of the footer), meaning you can however many different windows of however many different sessions as you'd like.

## Designing Scenes

**Scenes** are the basic units for designing immersive experiences, and encapsulate sets of reactive event relationships.

Scenes are where you create **Bindings** between the **Emitters** and **Actions** of various **Targets**. Bindings live on the **Scene Graph**, and are made by connecting together different **Nodes**. Actions and Emitters are Nodes, and Rocketship also provides a set of useful Utility Nodes for creating more complex Bindings and orchestrating reactive event relationships between different Scenes (see [Nodes]). 

Once a Scene is activated, its Bindings are live - a Scene doesn't need to exist 'in time', it will run asynchronously until the scene is deactivated. 

Scenes can optionally have one or many **Event Tracks**, which hold keyframes that modify properties of Nodes in the Scene Graph as the Event Track unfolds in 'local' time (relative to the Scene).

## Scheduling Scenes

Finally, Scenes can also be added to the **Calendar**, which defines when they are activated and deactivated in 'global' time. 