# Getting Started

> NOTE: This guide assumes you have Services set up and connected to Rocketship. For more information on that process, see [Connecting Services to Rocketship](./06_Connecting%20Systems%20to%20Rocketship.md)

## Hello, Rocketship!

The core functionality of Rocketship can be achieved in just a few simple steps:

1. Open a Chromium-based web browser, navigate to the address of a Rocketship server, and select or create a new Project
2. Open the Scenes page and drag an Emitter and an Action from the Target list onto the Scene Graph
3. Connect the Emitter to the Action to create a Binding
4. Activate the Scene to make the Binding live

And that's it! You've created your first reactive event relationship by creating a simple Binding between an Emitter and an Action. The Binding is encapsulated within a Scene, and by activating the Scene, the Binding is now live.

## Next Steps

Immersive experiences can be made up of many reactive event relationships, both simple and complex, between lots of different systems, and can make use of additional features for managing and orchestrating how they unfold. 

> Want to make complex bindings involving multiple Services with additional logic?
> See [Managing Bindings](./10_Managing%20Bindings.md)

> Want to have lots of Scenes that encapsulate different sets of reactive event relationships, and control each other?    
> See [Managing Scenes](./20_Managing%20Scenes.md).

> Want to see a bird's-eye view of all of your Scenes and how they relate to each other?
> See [The Overview](./30_The%20Overview.md)

> Want to control how Scenes evolve over time, and schedule them on a Calendar?    
> See [Managing Time](./40_Managing%20Time.md).

> Want to have different setup configurations for your project (e.g.'pre-viz', 'rehearsal', and 'live')?    
> See [Managing Sessions](./50_Managing%20Sessions.md).

> Want to manage access and permissions for individuals and teams?    
> See [Managing Projects](./60_Managing%20Projects.md) 

## Troubleshooting

[Help, my browser isn't connecting to Rocketship!](./80_Troubleshooting.md#help-my-browser-isnt-connecting-to-rocketship)

[Help, I'm not seeing any Targets!](./80_Troubleshooting.md#help-im-not-seeing-any-targets)

[Help, my Binding isn't doing anything!](./80_Troubleshooting.md#help-my-binding-isnt-doing-anything)