# Foreword

We can think about our experience of the world as an accumulated perception of the effects of countless reactive event relationships taking place around us. From fundamental interactions between subatomic particles to abstract relations between concepts and ideas, our very existence can be considered in these terms. 

Science and Engineering provide us with increasingly precise instruments for observing and manipulating reactive event relationships, while Mathematics and Philosophy continue to delve deeper into the complex relational principles of language, concept, and logic - as well as Art and Design, which continue to broaden our horizons of creative possibility space and idea.

It is possible for us to perceive the effects of these reactive event relationships, and our perception can be more or less conscious. By simply existing in the world, we automatically consciously and unconsciously observe and participate in an immensely complex and multidimensional universe unfolding through time - and by interacting with the world, we can influence what takes place in it. 

Rocketship was conceived principally through the lens of show production, and thus it primarily focuses on how we orchestrate reactive event relationships in designing immersive experiences. Artistically, it allows us to think about how a narrative can emerge for participants through their interaction and discovery of an immersive space - and technically, it facilitates the process of setting up and surfacing information about reactive event relationships which take place in complex, dynamic, real-time, multi-domain integrated systems at scale. 

Rocketship addresses two important challenges in creative technology and systems engineering: 1) That the technical infrastructure which enables reactive event relationships is often difficult and obscure to create, brittle, and difficult to maintain; and 2) That this technical burden impedes the flow of design iteration and greatly limits how freely we are able to navigate a creative possibility space.

Rocketship takes all of the abstraction layers necessary for effectively dealing with reactive event relationships in an arbitrary, system-agnostic way, expresses these layers in a more intuitive language, and provides both the technical infrastructure and software tooling which makes setting up and designing immersive experiences feel easy and natural.

## Rocketship was invented so that Nick Fletcher never had to deal with DMX ever again

To put it bluntly, existing show control software makes working with reactive event relationships within a network of multi-domain subsystems either a major pain in the ass, or unduly difficult and fragile to engineer effectively - not to mention doing so at scale often outright impossible. This is largely a knock-on effect of existing show data protocols, such as Timecode, Art-Net, OSC, and MIDI (even MIDI 2.0!). 

Designed with a different set of priorities in mind, these protocols are unfortunately ill-suited to the demands of highly interactive and dynamic environments. Unfortunatey, because we have been compelled to engineer immersive systems with them despite how laborious, frustrating, limited, and brittle they become. And to make matters worse, labor and brittleness increase exponentionally as the amount and variety of different systems grows, requiring many different protocols to be patched together, each patch less confidence-inspiring than the last. But all of are wouldn't feel so bad and if it weren't for the fact that engineering solutions are utlimately forced to be completely customized for every project that has a different system design (most projects). In other words, things engineered with these protocols aren't re-usable and can't scale.

There are lots of interesting possibilities that open up if the system could be re-usable, and could scale. But the harder it is to build something and the more fragile its construction, the less able it is to change, and so not only do rigid and unaccomodating systems tire the engineers, they also reduces the freedom with which the designers can navigate the creative possibility space offered by the technology at hand (which is the whole point of creative techology in the first place, to leverage technology in realizing something new and different).

So to make a long story short, in 2018, after a few years of struggling to produce the kinds of immersive experiences he envisioned within the existing paradigm of show control, Nick Fletcher said "fuck that" (as he often does) and so Rocketship was born.

## "The value is only realized when people can see a difference" (some screens producer guru somewhere)

6 years later (as of 2024), the first big win for Rocketship is that it isn't hard to set up reactive event relationships anymore. That means we can do it faster and iterate a lot more, and we don't have to be afraid of thinking about complicated interactive effects because technically they aren't difficult to implement.

And while reducing this lift is indeed valuable and important, it is not enough for us only to do the same thing in a more effective way - we want to do something entirely different and new, something which has never before existed because the tools for making it haven't yet existed. 

But what makes something different? To us, it's about the feeling you get when you enter into a space, and realize that space is a living, organic thing, and you start to discover a design narrative that emerges from your perception of the reactive event relationships taking place around you, and you can not only observe these relationships but influence them as well, and begin to interact with the space as a participant in the emergent narrative you suddenly realize you have become a part of.