# Introduction

## What is Rocketship?

Imagine 

Rocketship is a centralized control platform for orchestrating and monitoring realtime reactive event relationships within networks of integrated multi-domain systems. By providing an abstracted, system-agnostic language and interface, Rocketship makes it easy and intuitive to set up and begin iteratively designing immersive experiences. 

## Why is Rocketship?

### Technical Infrastructure

Rocketship takes a dynamic, flexible, and robust approach to technical infrastructure. Rather than needing to engineer bespoke solutions on a per-project basis that often feel like brittle 'science projects', Rocketship consistently and automatically discovers connected systems and their interactable targets, making it easy and intuitive to begin crafting an immersive environment. Rocketship always accurately reflects the state of connected systems, no matter how often or how much they change, and maintains a history of data provided by those systems.

### Creative Design

From a creative design perspective, Rocketship facilitates a faster, more agile, and more intuitive process for iteratively crafting immersive experiences. Because Rocketship automatically turns groups of disconnected systems into a coordinated network with a unified control interface, designers can experiment and iterate by addressing the experience holistically rather than departmentally, and have the freedom to radically alter their design decisions at any point without incurring major technical burdens. Rocketship makes reactive event relationships the building blocks of immersive experiences  

## How is Rocketship?

Data Model:

- Projects
    - Sessions
    - Scenes
        - Nodes
            - Targets
                - Emitters
                - Actions
            - Utilities
        - Bindings
        - Event Tracks
    - Bundles
    - Calendars
        - Appearances
    - Playlists